doc: add ORAS CLI proposal doc for compatibility mode (#739)
oras-project/oras: docs/proposals/compatibility-mode.md

You can find the testing result of the implementation result for OCI Spec from this [blog](https://toddysm.com/2023/01/05/oci-artifct-manifests-oci-referrers-api-and-their-support-across-registries-part-1/). On the other hand, users may want to force-push a specific manifest type to a registry for some reason.

The current workaround for enabling a kind of compatibility mode is to specify a `--config` flag when using `oras push`. Since the OCI artifact manifest does not have a `config`, it will push an OCI image manifest instead. It is not user-friendly and is a bit hacky. It would be better if we can provide a compatibility mode to easily customize and switch the manifest uploading behavior, and enable users to handle the incompatibility problem when using ORAS across different registries. 

## Goals

- Enable ORAS to work with more registries
- Provide different options to allow users to customize the behaviors of uploading manifest to the registry
- Provide an easy-to-use and secure user experience when switching the behaviors

## Solution

> Adding a new flag `--compatibility` under CLI commands `oras push` and `oras attach` with different variables to configure the behaviors of uploading manifest. We will only use `oras push` to demonstrate the examples below.

Reviewer: I have concerns on the forward compatibility. What if we have a new manifest in the future? In that case, `min` is no longer `min`.

How about using specific terms instead of `min` and `max`? or even introduce something like [compatibility level](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/alter-database-transact-sql-compatibility-level?view=sql-server-ver16#supported-dbcompats)?

Reviewer: Proposed terms are
- `min` --> `v1.1-referrers`
- `max` --> `v1.1-fallback`
- `artifact-manifest` --> `v1.1`, `v1.1-artifact`
- `image-manifest` --> `v1.1-image`

Additionally, the default one is named `auto`.

Reviewer: Based on the proposed terms, why not just name `--compatibility` as `--spec`? Much simpler 😺

```

### Use case B

If users want to force-push the OCI image manifest to registries whether they are compliant with OCI v1.0 or v1.1, using `--compatibility image-manifest` will only upload OCI image manifest to registries. This option is helpful when users have concerns to use OCI artifact manifest or migrate content to OCI v1.0 compliant registries.

```bash
oras push localhost:5000/hello-artifact:v1 --artifact-type sbom/example --compatibility image-manifest sbom.json 
```

### Use case C

Disable backward compatibility and only upload OCI artifact manifest to a registry. This flag `--compatibility min` will be commonly used with the OCI v1.1 compliant registries or registries that support storing OCI artifact manifest, such as Zot, Azure Container Registry, and Docker Hub. ORAS will push OCI artifact manifest only and no further actions for maintaining artifact references in registries. This is the most strict option for the behavior of uploading manifest. Users might choose it for security requirements. 

```bash
oras push localhost:5000/hello-artifact:v1 --artifact-type sbom/example --compatibility min sbom.json 
```

### Use case D

> If users want to upload manifest to OCI v1.0 compliant registries like Harbor, GitHub Container Registry, etc, using `--compatibility max` will push OCI image manifest and then push Referrals tag schema if the `subject` field of the OCI image manifest is not empty. This option enables maximum backward compatibility for registries. It allows `oras push` or `oras attach` to work with the OCI v1.0 compliant registries even though the registries return non-404 response code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If users want to upload manifest to OCI v1.0 compliant registries like Harbor, GitHub Container Registry, etc, using `--compatibility max` will push OCI image manifest and then follows [referrers tag schema](https://github.com/opencontainers/distribution-spec/blob/v1.1.0-rc1/spec.md#referrers-tag-schema) if the `subject` field of the OCI image manifest is not empty. This option enables maximum backward compatibility for registries. It allows `oras push` or `oras attach` to work with the OCI v1.0 compliant registries even though the registries return non-404 response code.
```

```bash
oras push localhost:5000/hello-artifact:v1 --artifact-type sbom/example --compatibility max sbom.json 
```

> 

Reviewer 2: This is obsolete, can you set it as resolved.

The current workaround for enabling a kind of compatibility mode is to specify a `--config` flag when using `oras push`. Since the OCI artifact manifest does not have a `config`, it will push an OCI image manifest instead. It is not user-friendly and is a bit hacky. It would be better if we can provide a compatibility mode to easily customize and switch the manifest uploading behavior, and enable users to handle the incompatibility problem when using ORAS across different registries. 

## Goals

- Provide different options to allow users to customize the manifest uploading behavior to the registry
- Provide an easy-to-use and secure user experience when switching the behaviors
- Enable ORAS to work with more registries flexibly 

## Solution

Adding new flags to `oras push` and `oras attach` respectively with different variables to configure the manifest uploading behaviors. 

- Adding a flag `--image-spec` to `oras push` and `oras attach` to force uploading a specific manifest type to registry

> - Adding a flag  `--distribution-spec` to `oras attach` to configure compatibility with registry

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Adding a flag `--distribution-spec` to `oras attach` to configure compatibility with registry
```

Reviewer 2: `--distribution-spec` is also added to `oras cp`, `oras discover` and `oras manifest push`, so artifact publishers can cutomized the server-side behavior when they are push an image/artifact with non-nil subject.

Author: Added this note to line 30.

### Force uploading a specific manifest type using a flag `--image-spec`

It follows `--image-spec <spec version>-<manifest type>` to enable configuration of using which spec version and manifest type. Currently, it only supports specifying v1.1 as the spec version. 

| registry support                        | v1.1-artifact | v1.1-image | 
| :-------------------------------------- | ----------------- | -------------- | 
| OCI spec 1.0                            | no                | yes[^footnote] |
| OCI spec 1.1 without referrers API      | yes               | yes            | 
| OCI spec 1.1 with referrers API support | yes               | yes            | 

> > [^footnote]: It only works when the registry returns error code 404 for [referrers API](https://github.com/opencontainers/distribution-spec/blob/v1.1.0-rc1/spec.md#listing-referrers). 

Reviewer 2: This foot note should be added to distribution spec flag table, the cell in column `v1.1-referrers-tag` and row `OCI spec 1.0`

Author: Moved the footnote to the second table.

# Compatibility mode for ORAS

> This document is for adding a document to elaborate the compatibility mode for ORAS CLI which was prosed in [issue #720](https://github.com/oras-project/oras/issues/720).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document is for adding a document to elaborate the compatibility mode for ORAS CLI which was proposed in [issue #720](https://github.com/oras-project/oras/issues/720).
```

## Background

> OCI group announced the release of v1.1 for [Image-spec](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/main/artifact.md) and [Distribution-spec](https://github.com/opencontainers/distribution-spec) in Sep 2022. It supports the OCI artifact manifest and provides a new referrers discovery API that allows artifact references.

Reviewer: Please use tagged version for the link instead of the `main` branch.

Since 0.16.0, ORAS supports pushing OCI artifact manifest to OCI v1.0 compliant registries. However, the new manifest type may not be supported on the consumer side (e.g. self-crafted scripts) or in those OCI v1.0 compliant registries. To enable ORAS to work with popular registries, it provides backward compatibility which supports two types of manifest and allows fallback to upload the OCI image manifest to OCI v1.0 compliant registries or those which enabled OCI image manifest storage. 

## Challenge

> However, ORAS fallback may fail as there is no deterministic way to confirm if a registry supporting OCI artifact manifest and no consistent error response. 

Reviewer: This sentence is required to be reworded.
```suggestion
The fallback attempted by ORAS may fail since there is no deterministic way to confirm if a registry supporting OCI artifact manifest due to no consistent error response. 
```

- Provide an easy-to-use and secure user experience when switching the behaviors
- Enable ORAS to work with more registries flexibly 

## Solution

Adding new flags to `oras push` and `oras attach` respectively with different variables to configure the manifest uploading behaviors. 

- Adding a flag `--image-spec` to `oras push` and `oras attach` to force uploading a specific manifest type to registry
- Adding a flag `--distribution-spec` to `oras attach`, `oras attach`, `oras cp`, and `oras manifest push` to configure compatibility with registry when pushing or copying an image/artifact manifest. This flag is also applicable to `oras discover` for filtering the referrers.

### Force uploading a specific manifest type using a flag `--image-spec`

It follows `--image-spec <spec version>-<manifest type>` to enable configuration of using which spec version and manifest type. Currently, it only supports specifying v1.1 as the spec version. 

| registry support                        | v1.1-artifact | v1.1-image | 
| :-------------------------------------- | ----------------- | -------------- | 

> | OCI spec 1.0                            | no                | yes |

Reviewer: This is not true. I would like to say that registries implements OCI image-spec 1.0 are likely to support 1.1 image manifest.

| OCI spec 1.1 without referrers API      | yes               | yes            | 
| OCI spec 1.1 with referrers API support | yes               | yes            | 

If users want to force pushing a specific version of OCI artifact manifest to a registry, they can use `--image-spec v1.1-artifact`. An OCI artifact manifest will be packed and uploaded. Users might choose it for security requirements, such as pushing a signature to a registry without changing its digest. For example:

```bash
oras push localhost:5000/hello-artifact:v1 \

> --image-spec v1.1-artifact

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--image-spec v1.1-artifact \
```

--artifact-type sbom/example \

> sbom.json 

Reviewer: indentation?

```

If users want to force pushing an OCI image manifest, no matter whether the registry is compliant with the OCI Spec v1.0 or v1.1, using `--image-spec v1.1-image` will only upload the OCI image manifest to a registry. This option is useful when users have concerns to use OCI artifact manifest or need to migrate content to OCI v1.0 compliant registry. For example:

```bash
oras push localhost:5000/hello-artifact:v1 \
--image-spec v1.1-image \
--artifact-type sbom/example \

> sbom.json \

Reviewer: indentation?

```

### Configure compatibility with OCI registry using a flag `--distribution-spec`

Based on the Referrers API status in the registry, users can use flag `--distribution-spec <spec version>-<api>-<option>` to configure compatibility with registry. 

| registry support                        |  v1.1-referrers-api | v1.1-referrers-tag |
| :-------------------------------------- | --- | --- | 
| OCI spec 1.0                            | no  | yes[^footnote] |

> | OCI spec 1.1 without referrers API      | no  | yes |

Reviewer: `OCI spec 1.0` should be exactly the same as `OCI spec 1.1 without referrers API` since we don't do any detection.

Reviewer: Of course, if nothing specified. It will go into an `auto` mode, and then it requires `[^footnote]`.

| OCI spec 1.1 with referrers API support | yes | yes |

> [^footnote]: It only works when the registry returns error code 404 for [referrers API](https://github.com/opencontainers/distribution-spec/blob/v1.1.0-rc1/spec.md#listing-referrers). 

Using a flag `--distribution-spec v1.1-referrers-api` to disable backward compatibility. It only allows uploading OCI artifact manifest to OCI v1.1 compliant registry with Referrers API enabled. This is the most strict option for setting compatibility with the registry. Users might choose it for security requirements. 

For example, using this flag, ORAS will attach OCI artifact manifest only to an OCI v1.1 compliant registry with Referrers API enabled and no further actions for maintaining artifact references in registries.  

```bash
oras attach localhost:5000/hello-artifact:v1 \
--artifact-type sbom/example \
--distribution-spec v1.1-referrers-api \

> sbom.json 

Reviewer: indentation?

```

> Using `--distribution-spec v1.1-referrers-tag` to enable maximum backward compatibility with the registry. It will upload OCI image manifest and [referrers tag schema](https://github.com/opencontainers/distribution-spec/blob/v1.1.0-rc1/spec.md#referrers-tag-schema) regardless of whether the registry complies with the OCI Spec v1.0 or v1.1 or support Referrers API. For example: 

Reviewer: To enable maximum backward compatibility with the registry, both flags are required.

```bash
oras attach localhost:5000/hello-artifact:v1 \
--artifact-type sbom/example \

> --compatibility v1.1-referrers-tag \

Reviewer: This flag is not updated.

> sbom.json 

Reviewer: indentation?

```

> Similarly, users can use `oras cp`, and `oras manifest push` with the flag `--distribution-spec` to configure compatibility with registry when pushing or copying an image/artifact manifest, or use `oras discover` with the flag `--distribution-spec` for filtering the referrers in the view.

Reviewer: Both flags are required for compatibility.
